Other/Gestures.md, before:

## 0 - MIDI Pitched instrument/“soprano”

### RightHand 
RH open below mid point, sends noteOn message to Ableton

RH open above mid point, sends noteOff message to Ableton

(I like the idea of tapping a hot stove or touching the keys on the piano)

RH below mid point, x y & z directions all map to different filter envelopes

It’d be cool if the effect ended up looking like stirring a pot of funky sounds

### LeftHand
Pitch - (x-axis/body relative)

Open palm - white piano keys (c, d, e, f, g, a, b)

Fist - black piano keys (c#, eb, f#, g#, bb)

3 octaves?

Volume - pointer/middle finger (y-axis, relative to mid point/OR point that feels comfortable? how customizable is that?)

## 1 - BEATS

### RightHand
RH open below mid point, sends message to activate drum

visually like hitting a literal drum
### LeftHand
Toggles between drum instruments? (Kick, hi hat, snare, etc)

I would LOVE IT if this could be a LeftHand punch to the side, or maybe a swing of the left arm?

## 2 - BASS MIDI Pitched instrument

Same controls as the 0 quadrant, but using a different instrument track in Ableton

## 3 GRANULATOR

This is my greatest dream: 

https://www.ableton.com/en/packs/granulator/

It takes little bits of a recorded sound and loops the group of samples according to a window you can customize. ITS SO COOL AND THERE’S SO MUCH AWESOME STUFF that we can look at but here’s what I’m thinking right now:

### RightHand
Open left/right(body relative) file position

-changes the window position in the wave form that is being manipulated 

Open up/down filters/frequencies to modulate
### LeftHand
Open hand right to left (body relative) sets window size (closed hand stops window change)

changes the number of grains/samples that are looped

Commit message:

Updated Gesture list after discussing with Matthew.
Went through section 0 with Matthew.

Other/Gestures.md, after:

## 0 - MIDI Pitched instrument/“soprano”

### RightHand 
**noteOn message** Send a noteOn message when the velocity switches directions. Previous velocity can also be used for noteVelocity.

Note length, filters, etc. based on where you do it: x y & z directions all map to different filter envelopes.

It’d be cool if the effect ended up looking like stirring a pot of funky sounds

### LeftHand
Pitch - (x-axis/body relative: shoulder to arm fully extended, y controls octave)

Open palm - white piano keys (c, d, e, f, g, a, b)

Fist - black piano keys (c#, eb, f#, g#, bb)

3 octaves?

Global volume: control with 2 fingers out (lasso) on the y-axis

## 1 - BEATS

### RightHand
RH open below mid point, sends message to activate drum

visually like hitting a literal drum
### LeftHand
Toggles between drum instruments? (Kick, hi hat, snare, etc)

I would LOVE IT if this could be a LeftHand punch to the side, or maybe a swing of the left arm?

## 2 - BASS MIDI Pitched instrument

Same controls as the 0 quadrant, but using a different instrument track in Ableton

## 3 GRANULATOR

This is my greatest dream: 

https://www.ableton.com/en/packs/granulator/

It takes little bits of a recorded sound and loops the group of samples according to a window you can customize. ITS SO COOL AND THERE’S SO MUCH AWESOME STUFF that we can look at but here’s what I’m thinking right now:

### RightHand
Open left/right(body relative) file position

-changes the window position in the wave form that is being manipulated 

Open up/down filters/frequencies to modulate
### LeftHand
Open hand right to left (body relative) sets window size (closed hand stops window change)

changes the number of grains/samples that are looped
